%hyperhelp title="Help Examples" date="2019-03-25"


# Example hyperhelp.json
------------------------

This is an example help index for a package containing a single help file. The
metadata at the top instructs HyperHelp that this is the index for a package
named `Sample`, and that inside of that package, the help files (i.e.
`index.txt`) are inside of a folder named `help/`.

The topics in a single file are declared, along with captions and aliases. In
addition some externals are also defined to open the `exec.py` file in the
default package and the home page for `hyperhelpcore` itself.

The `help_contents` provides a simple hierarchical table of contents that lets
you jump to the top level of the file and also sections. This also demonstrates
overriding the captions for some items.


```json
{
    "package": "Sample",
    "description": "Help for Sample Package",
    "doc_root": "help/",

    "help_files": {
        "index.txt": [
            "Index file for Sample package",

            {
                "topic": "index.txt",
                "caption": "Index file",
                "aliases": ["index file"]
            },
            {
                "topic": "introduction",
                "caption": "Introduction Section"
            },
            {
                "topic": "anchor",
                "caption": "Sample Anchor"
            },
            {
                "topic": "section two",
                "caption": "Second Section"
            },
            {
                "topic": "hidden anchor",
                "caption": "An anchor that is not visible in the document"
            },
            {
                "topic": "section three",
                "caption": "The third and last section"
            },
        ]
    },

    "externals": {
        "Packages/Default/exec.py": [
            "The exec plugin",

            {
                "topic": "exec.py",
            },
        ],

        "https://github.com/STealthy-and-haSTy/hyperhelpcore": [
            "The HyperHelp core dependency",

            {
                "topic": "hyperhelpcore",
                "caption": "Core Dependency"
            },
        ]

    },

    "help_contents": [
        "index.txt",
        {
            "topic": "index.txt",
            "caption": "The Sections",
            "children": [
                {
                    "topic": "introduction",
                    "caption": "Section One"
                },
                "section two",
                "section three"
            ]
        },
    ]
}
```


# Example index.txt
-------------------

This is the help file that goes with the sample above. It should be placed in
the same package as the above index, in a folder named `help/` (or you can
change the |doc_root| in the sample to suit).

This shows some of the simpler |markup| elements, such as |anchors|, |links|
and |:headings:section headings|.


```help
%hyperhelp title="Index file for Sample package" date="2019-03-22"

This is the root help file for the 'Sample' package.

If you use `Goto > Goto Symbol` in the main menu, the symbol list will show you
the section heading, indented based on the level of the section header itself.
You can also press <Tab> and <Shift+Tab> to jump back and forth  between the
sections.

Follow links by double clicking on them or pressing <Enter> while the cursor is
on them.


# Introduction
--------------

This part of the file would be a simple introduction. It also has an inline
*anchor* for a link to jump to.


## Section Two
--------------

This is a second section in the sample file. Along with a link to the |anchor|
in the previous section, this also contains a *|hidden anchor|*, which
functions the same as a regular one but is not visible in the document.


### Section Three
-----------------

This is the third section. Apart from being here to show that three levels of
section header are possible, it also shows that you can link to a |hidden
anchor| the same as a regular one.

In addition, you can also open the |exec.py| plugin by following this link or
view the code for |hyperhelpcore|, the dependency that powers HyperHelp.
```
